Two months ago I decided that I wanted to learn physics.
I had never taken a class in school, but it seemed like an interesting and useful topic that I would naturally gravitate towards given my background in mathematics.
To say I had several options for how to do this is an understatement. I may have had too many.

My little brother Mikey knows physics very well, having majored in physics at UC Santa Barbara.
So, I called him up and asked if he wanted to collaborate on a project with me.
The basic idea was this: we build a kind of "virtual learning environment", and, in the process, I learn some basic physics.

Great!

So, a few weeks later Mikey, having completed his book, "The Boy, The Girl, and The Butt", came to stay with me in my cramped apartment in Mountain View, CA.
At first, we didn't have a good idea about what we were doing. Mikey thought I'd have a much clearer roadmap for the project than I actually did, and I found it
very difficult to settle on the core ideas that I wanted to explore with our virtual learning environment.

"You sold me on it being like Khan Academy, but in VR", Mikey told me.
I didn't want to commit to this vision exactly, because I don't see how projecting instructional materials on a virtual wall is significantly different than
projecting them on my monitor. Sure, we could make a system where other people can watch with you, but that didn't need to be in VR. What would take advantage of
this 3D space? And, since I'm less gung-ho about VR-first design thinking than I used to be*, I figured I should think about 3D space, not head-tracked displays or
6 DOF devices like Vive and Oculus controllers.

*At AltspaceVR, we considered the GearVR, Daydream, "monoscopic" desktop users, and (if we had released the mode) "monoscopic" mobile device users vital to our success
as a company and a product. Similarly, Mozilla Hubs supports a wide variety of non-vr devices, and we expect MOST people to experience what we've built through these
non-vr means. Rather than considering these modalities as second class, I have come to view them as differently abled (and I don't mean that in a politically correct sense).
Desktop monoscopic mode permits the ability to type with a standard keyboard, meaning that text input can be done much more effectively on this platform than on mobile or in
VR. Most people store personal media on their mobile device, meaning that the phone (for practical rather than "raw" technical reasons) may be uniquely positioned to allow
users to bring that personal media into the shared space. VR device users have the benefits of having their head motions translated into an avatar's body language. People
with Vive and Oculus controllers can easily control 12 analog values by using 3 positional axes and 3 rotational axes on each hand. Furthermore, advanced users are provided
additional analog and (disappointingly few) digital inputs as well.

So anyway, in looking for material that would assist in my learning of physics, I had a lot of options. I was attracted to the idea of starting with "The Feynman Lectures on Physics"
and building my knowledge up from there. I had read a bit of it and enjoyed the style. It was a bit dense, and I didn't have the accompanying problem sets, so I thought Mikey could
help bridge the gap by finding problems that were well suited to the material in the lectures. I wanted to practice the concepts to solidify and more wholly understand them, rather
than only learn them on a superficial level.

Alternatively, I could study from a textbook that seemed to have been compiled by very capable physics professors and is widely used in physics curriculum in many universities. The
textbook, "Modern Physics" covers all the material you might learn in 2 years of undergraduate physics. It has hundreds of exercises of varying degrees of difficulty at the end of
each chapter. It has video clips the reader can watch by scanning QR codes scattered throughout the book. In short, it's a wonderfully impressive resource.

Mikey suggested that I learn from a mixture of "Modern Physics" and problem sets of his own design. I took his advice, and began working on his problem sets.
We struggled to merge the two goals of the project together. Learning SOME amount of physics ought not be an overwhelmingly difficult challenge for me,
given that I'm motivated, have enough skills in math for that not to slow me down, and I have a capable tutor literally living with me.  However, we had a very
difficult time agreeing on what kind of artifact** we should create along the way.

** Artifact: From the Latin _arte_, meaning "by or using art" and _facere_ or _factum_, meaning "make" or "something made". It is "an object made by human beings", but here we
widen our definition to include "objects" to include digital "objects" or patterns, and don't limit it to only those things made by humans. When I use the word, I mean something
that can be experienced in some way, can be "pointed to" by a link or type of reference. Artifacts help us to communicate with and understand each other. Words are artifacts.
Face to face conversation that isn't recorded is the creation of "temporary" artifacts of speech and body language. The structure of artifacts matter, and they matter a LOT.
Version control systems like git allow people to manage change to the artifacts they create and run together. Conversations in IRC are functionally different when there is a
built-in mechanism for archiving messages or not. The basic slack conversation artifact structure is a set of named sequences of utterance artifacts (text, emoji, video, links, etc.),
sorted chronologically. Slack threads adds a second dimension to each of these named sequences, giving people the option of appending a "threaded utterance" artifact onto
the "main line" utterance artifact. While these threads allow certain types of communication to happen that would be difficult to do before (e.g. having several simultaneous
conversations happening in the same original named sequence), they are also riddled with problems (e.g. I only know about activity in threads that I've participated in. I could
miss out on any number of messages if I don't scroll backward through the main named sequence to see if threads I haven't participated in have changed since I last looked).
In my opinion, threads are a bandaid on top of a fundamentally ineffective structure of communication. While it may be "easy" to understand threads of utterances arranged
chronologically, this default arrangement makes it extremely difficult for certain types of communication to happen over a long period of time with a large number of people.
Thus, people resort to a plethora of other artifact / document structures like Google Docs, wikis, can-ban boards, "stand up" meetings, and all of AGILE. I am extremely
interested in researching and developing tools and social norms that help people overcome certain communication difficulties for better understanding. This is literally
my favorite topic of conversation and independent "research" (which I put in quotation marks because I have read remarkably few research papers on this topic given how much I
talk and think about it). Some research into alternative structures have had partial success, but few have come to fruition outside of small research groups.
(See Compendium (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Compendium_(software)), Issue-based information system (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Issue-based_information_system), Memex,
and Xanadu.)

We knew we wanted to build something 3D, as I mentioned before. I wanted practice in trying to complete a "game design" challenge in a fixed amount of time, so it was
important to me for us to create an interactive experience. Beyond that, however, we had different (and unclear) ideas about what kind of experience it should be.

Some areas we explored were:
 - "Academy" : A virtual khan academy. There is a lecture hall, a study hall, tutors and student that can engage with each other and share work. Imagine a school in the real world,
   and bring as much of that as possible into a digital environment.
 - "Scrap" : A scrapbook/blog/vlog arranged in space. As I learn physics, we record videos, status reports, snippets of textbooks I'm reading, and we arrange these materials in
   the space. 

Some questions we asked were:
 - What role does the user play in the experience?

   Perhaps they are a student, and they will enter the space and we will try to teach them something they didn't know before. We'll choose an approachable topic for someone with
   little-to-no exposure to physics and we'll help them learn about that topic.
     Pros: Project scope is well contained.
           Success is easy to measure.
     Cons: Doesn't necessarily take advantage of a social, 3D medium in any way.
           Doesn't incentivize me to furtherr learn Physics, as I only have to know enough to present those topics.
           We are encouraged to make the space more interesting, although this is hardly related to the ideas we're exploring.

   Perhaps they are a make-believe student, and the space is a make-believe school. This way, we can explore what it might look and feel like to attend a "virtual academy". We can
   discuss and relationships between
     - Artifacts and Artifacts : How does one artifact relate to another? How is this information retrieved, stored, and accessed?
     - Person and Artifact : How does a person create and find artifacts? What operations can a person perform on an artifact or a set of artifacts?
     - Person and Person : How do people communicate? What do they exchange?
     - All : How do temporal and distance concepts change the answers to the questions above?***
     Pros: We don't have to worry about teaching real material, and so are free to include whatever we think is interesting.
           We are able to layer narrative structure onto the experience, as if the user were expected to turn in a homework assignment the next day,
             or had classmates/tutors/professors that helped each other, or there was an incentive/rewards system in place so that people got the
             assistance they needed, and were able to help anyone who wanted to learn something they knew.
           We could easily brainstorm things to do in this category.
           Plenty of ways to take advantage of a social, 3D medium.
           Success is easy enough to measure.
     Cons: Doesn't incentivize me to further learn physics.
           Project scope balloons easily.
           We are encouraged to make the space more interesting, although this is hardly related to the ideas we're exploring.

   Perhaps they are no one but ourselves in the future. In that case, perhaps we are just "scrap booking", "blogging", "vlogging", or "vrlogging" in a 3D space. Alternatively,
   it is a "memory palace" I use to remember concepts, store notes, and arrange content spatially.
     Pros: Success is easy to measure.
           I am incentivized to learn more physics.
           Project scope only balloons as we broaden documentation requirements.
           I'm not sure if it takes advantage of the medium in any way that 2D doesn't.
           The space requirements are minimal, as the content we put in it is most important.
     Cons: Doesn't teach anyone else anything.
           Is focused on me, and follows MY development.
           Harder to convince Mikey that this is interesting.

 - What role do we, as content creators, play?
   We are instructors, and so we fill the space with teaching content.
     Pros: I learn certain material well enough to teach it.
     Cons: I only need to learn material at the rate that we codify what I learn into lessons, which takes MUCH longer than learning it in the first place.
   We are the subject of the content in the space.
     Pros: We understand the subject material well.
     Cons: Other people may find it significantly less engaging that content that is actually related to physics.
   We are collectors, so our job is to arrange content other people have created in an interesting or useful way.
     Pros: Fewer original content requirements.
           High quality content enters the experience.
           Focus more on the experience of the user than on each piece of content.
     Cons: Content is less customized to our desires. We may end up following a track that has already been laid out rather than find out own way.
   
*** We had an easy time talking about some of the ramifications of temporal differences between participants and artifacts. Our conversation and understanding essentially reflected
a variation on Johansen's (1988) time and place matrix. This, I think, is a shortcoming of our own imagination and descriptive capabilities. It seems that describing the
alternative information structures I have in my head is still too difficult. This, I think, is because they are still not well formed. Perhaps, in trying to solidify them, I
will ultimately fail. Will that be because the visions in my head are fundamentally flawed, only possible as illusions? I suspect not. I think probably the "right" idea won't
come out easily, but I think there is enough of a nugget of an idea in here that something

Good ideas:
- Memex. As We May Think, 
- Create tools that elevate human capabilities. Then with elevated abilities, create better tools. Doug Engelbart
- Make work visible, public, and collaborative. Dynamic Land, Bret Victor
- Create knowledge you can see, Visual Display of quantitative information
- Answer "why?" before focusing on "how?". Prototyping before Braid, Jonathon Blow
- 
